hey guys chrisfix here and my dad's jag
has seen better days
I am downgrading it from daily driver
status to project car status because
every time I fix something on this car
something else breaks and it's just a
never-ending chain of working on this
car it's becoming unreliable it's been
pretty good for the last couple years
it's been fine hundred thousand miles
it's been running a ok but all of a
sudden things are just stacking up on
top of each other and there's a bunch of
stuff broken with it so I really need to
find something reliable that my dad
could daily drive I'm getting sick of
working on this car and let me show you
what I mean so real quickly I just want
to give you an idea of what my dad has
been dealing with driving this car
recently
and the major issues the first one
listen to this when I go start her up so
first I don't know if you could hear hit
that starter there's a bearing in there
and the bearing is shot you could hear
it just scream when it goes to engage
the flywheel the next thing that you
probably notice is there is a check
engine light on the dash this check
engine light is for a bad oxygen sensor
I replaced three of them that's the last
one and the other thing is there's an
evap leak which is really hard to trace
I did trace it and all the smoke was
coming out of here the gas cat now you
would think ok just replace the old gas
cap I did this is a brand new gas cap
and unfortunately this whole filler neck
has to be replaced for whatever reason
this is distorted and it's allowing
fumes to come out which means it won't
pass emissions I did get it to pass
emissions by taking a balloon and
stretching the balloon over this and
then right before I got to the DMV I put
the gas cap on and she passed but that's
definitely not the right way to do it
and in order to fix that I have to
replace the entire filler neck from here
all the way to the gas tank so have to
drop the tank in order to drop the tank
it's just a mess I think you get the
idea and don't you guys worry I will
make a video on how to make your very
own smoke leak detector because they're
expensive to buy and that's how you find
leaks like the evap week and I'm gonna
do something that's inexpensive to make
it's actually really cool so stay tuned
for that now the next problem it can
take a quick look you can see there's
more lights on the dash and that is an
ABS light right there
unfortunately the ABS light is on
because of this bed ABS module and I
have to replace this but in the meantime
my dad's driving around with this
without ABS which she's like oh it's
okay back in the day no cars had an ABS
but I like ABS because ABS is definitely
very helpful safety feature and that's
not the only safety feature that isn't
working another one is the headlights
now you probably Kris the headlights
look like they're both working and they
are but watch this you see that
projector housing right in there well
when you're driving along and you hit a
bump the projector housing moves around
and then if it falls into a spot like
this now you have to use your high beams
because this is aimed too low and I
can't have my dad driving around with a
car like this you need your headlights
and you need them to work perfectly and
the sad thing is it's just these little
plastic gears that broke and it's a
design flaw on these Jaguar x-type s--
and it happens to basically all of them
but wait there's more for whatever
reason I don't know where both rear
axles decided to go bad you can hear
them squeaking as the car drives by not
only does this sound bad as you're
driving sometimes the speedometer
doesn't even work out of nowhere just
randomly because the speedo works off
the ring gears on the axles and then
finally the last thing and probably the
biggest issue is there is a head gasket
leak check this out you can see there's
a head gasket leak because there's
bubbles going into the cooling system
and then those bubbles are coming out of
the reservoir here and that's just a
telltale sign of a bad head gasket now
the head gasket leak causes my dad to
fill up his radiator every couple of
days so he needs about one of these
every let's just say five days and those
of you that lived the life of a coolant
leak or a head gasket leak know you have
to keep coolant in your trunk and
unfortunately we have to keep actual
coolant not just water because water
will freeze we live in an area where it
gets cold so it gets expensive and it's
a hassle my dad shouldn't be filling up
his car with antifreeze every couple of
days that's just unacceptable so you
guys are probably like Chris why don't
you fix all this why did you let it get
this bad and actually I didn't let it
get this bad it all happened real
quickly it all started adding up real
fast
which is why my dad needs a new car so
today I got my dad a car and he has no
clue I cannot wait to surprise him and I
just hope no one is cutting onions when
that happens now this isn't any normal
car I got him something that he's had
his eyes on but would never get it's an
all-wheel-drive twin-turbo GT car and
after all my dad's been through to take
care of my family all the sacrifice and
for the past few years he's let me take
over the garage and take over the
driveway with project cars and car parts
without even hesitating
he's always
to me and no one is more deserving of
this car than him now one thing I want
to do before the reveal is change the
color of the car to my dad's favorite
color and I won a free rap last year so
this is the perfect car to do it on so
let's head over to the rap shop
and he or she is a barely used perfect
condition 2014 Maserati Quattroporte any
time we saw one of these on the road my
dad would comment about how nice they
look so instead of getting him another
Jaguar x-type or something like that I
decided to get him something special so
now the cars in good hands and I cannot
wait to see the transformation now as we
wait for that car to get wrapped let me
tell you guys some of the economics
behind this car and also how I got it
for such a great deal now the first two
questions you guys probably have are
where did I find it and how much did I
pay for it
so let me show you so I found this car
using auto Tempest and I admittedly
spend way too much time on this site
looking for new project cars and what I
like about it instead of searching
individual car websites it searches all
of these websites all with one click so
ebay cars.com everything you see there
one click it'll search for it so if we
scroll down you can see I have Maserati
Quattroporte for keywords I put
all-wheel drive because we want the
all-wheel-drive version not the rear
wheel drive version 2013 to 2019 which
is the newest generation and then all we
have to do is hit search and boom check
out all these results it just keeps
going and going and going and going and
if you take a look at some of these
prices you're probably thinking Chris
you're out of your mind but I'm not this
is the Chris fix Channel and today I'm
gonna show you how to get a hundred and
thirty thousand dollar car for less than
thirty thousand check it out this is the
ad for the car that I purchased
he was asking $30,000 I negotiated him
down to 26 thousand dollars but wait it
gets better
here's the window sticker of the car I
purchased in 2014 this car was a hundred
and seven thousand dollars so that means
in five years this car depreciated
eighty one thousand dollars over 75% of
its cost now this is where the economics
start making sense why would you buy a
new one when you could buy one a couple
years old with forty five thousand miles
in amazing condition and when I mean
amazing condition I mean amazing
condition this is a pre-purchase
inspection from Maserati
I took it there $200 they scan the
computer their Tech's who work on these
cars all day long looked at all the
common issues that they normally find
none of them were wrong there are new
brakes new tires everything checked out
they installed new bulbs so the guy who
checked out this car told me that this
car is just like a brand new
car is an amazing condition and he said
he wouldn't hesitate to make an offer on
it and one last thing right here I just
want to show you guys the average price
of a brand new car in 2018
it's $36,000 in 2019 the average price
was $37,000 we bought something for more
than ten thousand dollars less and my
point is you could buy a new car or you
could save your money especially on a
luxury car wait a few years and you
could get a really nice off lease in
like-new condition car for 75% off MSRP
and you won't take that huge
depreciation hit that's the smart way to
do it and save a ton of money so you
don't need to be rich to buy a Maserati
you just need to be smart about it so
hopefully that was insightful for you
guys this website is awesome thank you
Auto tempest for making it and for
support in the video if you guys are
looking for a used car go check out the
link in the description I'll link this
website it'll make your life so much
easier now let's get out of here and go
pick up the freshly wrapped Maserati now
they've had this car for a few days and
I cannot wait to see what it looks like
after the wrap time's running out the
goal is to surprise my dad tomorrow so
let's see what we get
holy smokes what a difference is this
even my car look at this thing
oh man this is incredible so here's a
before and after out with the white and
in with the blue wow this color really
pops and you can see all those Italian
curves this car has so much better than
with the white I still can't believe
this is the same car dude you killed it
you killed it look at this my dad is
gonna love this this is exactly the blue
I envisioned this is like that Corvette
blue this is a hundred percent so
perfect
monkey by far for numerals
but upon closer
[Music]
now this car is beautiful I'm not gonna
bore you with a review of the car but I
do want to touch upon some things that
make this quadra-port a really nice now
I don't know if it's proper to call a
car handsome but I'm gonna do it anyway
this car is handsome and I'm glad we
wrapped it because this blue sets this
car off perfectly and I think you could
consider this car an exotic car with
only around 2000 made every year and
while this exterior is beautiful to look
at let me show you the interior because
that's where it's at now this is easily
the most comfortable car I've ever
driven it has real Italian leather
none of that fake pleather stuff and
it's important to be comfortable because
my dad drives a lot of miles and many
hours every week to go to work now one
thing I want to show you that you might
have noticed the door sills are still
white so you could tell it's a wrap but
don't worry that's gonna change we were
running on a tight timeline so they
couldn't wrap the whole thing blue but
I'm taking it back and they're gonna
make the whole inside here blue you
can't even tell it's gonna be a rat
it'll look just like paint so I just
want to mention that real quick let's go
inside let me show you the interior now
sitting inside of this car is nice it's
comfortable it's modern it has all the
technologies that you would expect in a
newer car and it also has some nice
old-school maserati touches like a wood
- my dad loves wood trim and this
Tanganyika wood looks amazing now I
really like this shifter setup because
it has the drive modes all in one easy
to get to location right here you can
turn your traction control on and off
right here you can go into manual mode
so you can manually shift the car with
the flappy paddles behind the steering
wheel then you have ice mode which means
increased control and efficiency this
will increase your fuel economy lower
emissions and also give you a little bit
more traction next is my favorite mode
the sport mode when you hit that flaps
open up in the dual exhaust to make it
louder it also increases the boost of
the turbo engine and the throttle is
more responsive and the transmission
shifts quicker giving this car 0 to 60
in under 5 comfortable seconds as well
as a quarter mile and just under 13
comfortable
and finally if you want your suspension
to be stiffer you press that button to
give you better handling but this is a
nice comfortable luxury car so we'll
keep that off next thing that's
incredible about this car is the
interior is very quiet and that is due
in part of this glass right here while
this might seem like normal glass this
is actually special glass check this out
this glass has two panes one on the
outside one on the inside and in between
it's sandwiches a laminate and that
makes it extra thick and extra quiet so
when the windows are closed the road
noise in this is almost non-existent now
another thing about this car is how long
it is over 17 feet and what that gives
you is a real rear seat this rear seat
is huge check this out and I really mean
it there is a ton of room back here look
at all this room you can literally
spread your legs all the way out and
recline you don't see that on many cars
today and with all the compact cars out
there you can barely move your feet in
here there's tons of room you get your
climate control and then one of my
favorite features is right here on the
door check this out you press this
button right here boom a privacy shade
pops up now the Sun isn't in your face
anymore
but let's just say you want to look
outside and the sun's not in your face
anymore boom press the button the
sunshade goes down and that's such a
cool feature that you don't see on many
cars today that's probably why I really
like it so the interior super nice I
love it now the last thing I want to
show you is the trunk so double tap the
key and look at how much room is in here
this truck is huge which is good for my
dad because he's always carrying around
a lot of stuff for work so I think you
get the idea this is gonna be a million
times better than that old broken-down
jag my dad's been driving around he's
gonna love this I cannot wait to give it
to him and everything on this car is
perfect except for one thing and that is
it needs an oil change now an oil change
doesn't sound like much but check this
out if you get this done through
Maserati they charge five hundred and
fifty dollars to do an oil change now
you're probably like hey what's so
special about why is it five hundred
fifty dollars and I can't really give
you an answer the only thing that's
unique is it takes eight quarts of oil
versus the typical five quarts of oil in
a normal car so otherwise this is going
to be exactly the same as changing the
oil and anything else let's get under
the car and let me show you first there
are a few bolts holding in this plastic
under tray which helps give the car its
aerodynamics to get 25 miles a gallon
with that removed we have a normal oil
drain plug to remove
so just unscrew that and that's such a
bad designed to have a cooler line right
there it's gonna get drenched and I'm
gonna grab an oil sample to send to the
lab to get tested to see the condition
of the oil and get an idea of the
overall condition of the engine
beautiful so now we can take the old
crush washer off the drain bolt and you
can see the drain bolt looks really
clean that's a magnet right there and
there's no big pieces of metal on there
it's not all gunked up which is a good
thing this thing looks brand new inside
then we could take our new crush washer
and slide it over our drain bolt and now
we can hand tighten this down and
finally snug it down don't over tighten
it you just want it snug good next we
could get the plastic under tray in
place and tighten down all the bolts
that hold it in now we need to remove
the oil filter which is located on top
of the engine bay right behind the
driver's side air filter right there to
get to that remove the three clips that
hold the air filter box in remove the
air filter and let's vacuum out the
leads from inside the air box now we can
remove the old oil filter by unscrewing
it and carefully taking it out out with
the old and in with the new and now you
can just screw the new oil filter in
until it's snug now we can install the
air filter and then the air box and
let's add our oil we're using eight
quarts of the recommended 5w 40 euro
full synthetic motor oil and with that
last quart we are done changing the oil
all right so let's go start her up
well back her off the ramp so we're on
level ground now that oil is getting
circulated now we'll shut her off and
let's go check the oil dipstick the
moment of truth are we filled to the
correct level perfect right at the max
and there's nothing to it and there you
go now we have changed the oil in this
Maserati saved ourselves 450 dollars and
the point of me showing you this is if
you could do your own maintenance you
could take care of your own car you
could pretty much get anything and be
able to fix it or maintain it don't let
other people scare you away from cars
that you really like or you really want
give it a try it's totally worth it cuz
then you're gonna be driving something
that you really enjoy my dad is gonna
love this
I'm gonna take this around the block and
hide this from my dad he'll be home in a
few minutes and I don't want him to see
this and then we're gonna Surprise them
alright so right now I'm parking this
car on the other side of the development
so my dad can't see it my sister's gonna
take this car and drive it up the
driveway what's gonna happen is my dad's
gonna be opening up a gift
top of the Mustang he's gonna be facing
the other way and this car is gonna grow
up right behind him and I mean he'll
hear it's gonna be awesome I am like so
nervous I'm shaking I can't believe the
cameras being held steady I like this is
the moment this is it you do this once
in your life and this is it right now I
am pumped here we go
wish me luck there's a gift for you keep
in my pocket there's a gift on the back
of the Mustang I want you to open yeah
since you can't have the real thing
right now can't take out the whole thing
I like the way you can open the cards
and everything
[Music]
and that's the real one
now you got a mother and you see the
color
[Music]
ah
yeah Go Daddy had this in it
you gotta just the seats and everything
so what do you think I can't believe it
it's gorgeous
I never sat in anything like this I have
to show you all the different features
and stuff but it's got an awesome
infotainment system it has all these
different modes over here I mean it just
goes on and on you got your your sunroof
that you're really like so I say how
about we close out the video and then
let's go for a ride sounds like a good
idea how to do everything though I don't
even know how to shift
don't worry lovey it'll be easy if you
liked the video give it a thumbs up if
you're not a subscriber think about
subscribing I know I watched the videos
and of course it's my son so I'm partial
but there's a lot of good information
and a lot of things that help you do
things yourself and save money and just
out of curiosity in the comments section
if you'd like you could put down what
you think your dream car would be and
I'd like to see that and hear
everybody's opinions alright so there
you go you heard my dad in the comment
section below let me know what your
dream car is this is so cool it's so
awesome to be able to do something like
this and you only get to do something
like this once in your life so I really
appreciate for all the support guys stay
tuned for some awesome how-to videos
coming up